NDIP Number 0002

Title Namesdao Name Wallet Address Resolution DRAFT

# Namesdao Name Service Wallet Address Resolution v0.3 DRAFT


## Requirements

1. Resolution must be able to exclusively use data from the decentralized Chia blockchain to resolve a name into a Chia wallet address.
2. Name resolution must reflect transfers of ownership of the name/NFT


## Specification

Extension of Chia NFT1 Standard

Names below are referenced in lowercase. If there is no dot extension at the end of the name, e.g. .xch, They will be interpreted as .xch extension names, e.g. _namesdaotime may reference _NamesdaoTime.xch or _namesdaotime.xch.

A Namesdao name record on the Chia blockchain is a NFT1 coin from Namesdao's DID. A name record consists of four values:
1. the NFT coin id
2. The name, which is lowercase
3. The expiry block
4. The Chia blockchain NFT owner address

A. To extract the Name and Expiry Block for a Namesdao-DID NFT:
1. Take the second-to-last URI for the metadata file.
2. Trim off the .json ending
3. Separate the text following the last "/" and split by the last "-" into two fields.
4. The expiry block is the second field.
5. URL-decode the first field to obtain the name.

B. The Wallet address for the name is the NFT owner address.

The name is valid for the time up to and including the Chia blockchain block number of the expiry block value.

Block explorers, Wallets and Infrastructure Providers should ideally index Namesdao names directly from the Chia blockchain, which is the primary source of Name resolution.

Name metadata includes a Display Name attribute, which is case-sensitive for cosmetic display purposes, but the name itself is lowercase.

Namesdao Names must not be 62 characters long, to avoid risk of confusion with xch addresses.

Max length: 100 characters initially

As of this writing, names beginning with 0, 1 or 3 underscores ("_") and 7 or more alphanumeric characters may be publicly registered. The medium-term & long-term goal is for name registration to be available on a decentralized basis. In this initial release, name registration is currently centralized to a signing key that issues the DID-backed NFT's of Namesdao.

### Secondary Caches

Secondary caches can provide for speedy lookups, and help applications such as limited wallets that do not include a full Chia node. Namesdao offers a secondary cache/lookup service hosted at https://namesdaolookup.xchstorage.com/name1.json and a slower one at https://storage1.xchstorage.cyou/namesdao/name1.json, where name1 is the name being looked up. Other service providers may create and offer alternative services based on this spec as well.

#### Verifiability

Namesdao's secondary cache includes 2 features for verifiability.

1. For each .json file, there is a .json.sig file, which contains a signature of the .json file with Namesdao's gpg key. Verifying the lookup .json file's authenticity provides some resistance to attacks such as DNS seizures and Man-In-The-Middle attacks.

2. Additionally, each .json file includes an nft_coin_id attribute which wallets and apps can use to confirm data quickly with a local full node, or with multiple external full node services or NFT or blockchain explorers. The singleton path can be followed to verify the wallet address of the current owner on the reference full node, net of any recent transfers. For a full node that hasn't indexed all Namesdao names, the nft_coin_id lookup can act like a remote index that can be verified locally.

#### Cache Freshness

To monitor freshness of the secondary cache, Namesdao provides the /admin/last_update.json endpoint on both cache servers which provides a timestamp field indicating the start time of the most recent cache update.
